---
title: Trakt.tv
author: micp
layout: post
permalink: /2012/08/trakt-tv/
---
# 

Anybody who knows me well enough will know that I spend a large amount of my free time watching movies and TV series.

A few year ago I built myself a HTPC (Home Theatre PC). It basically looks like a DVD player but works like a computer. The PC runs Ubuntu and has XBMC (XBOX Media Centre) installed along with a few other plugins to make my life easier and to make sure that my library of TV shows is always up to date.

Now a few month back I was using a plugin called goMiso to record everything I watched – I liked the social aspect of the plugin. Being able to see what other people where watching and vice-versa.

That plugin however slowly became a massive pain to me. It would frequently crash, not load on startup or record that I was watching NULL on a regular basis.

This made me start to look around for an alternative which is where I came across [trakt.tv][1]. After singing up and installing a few plugins I found this to be just what I needed. The plugin crawled my library and pulled in everything I had marked as watched, this then allowed me to logon to the site and see what other people where watching who had watched similar movies and tv series to myself.

 [1]: http://trakt.tv/user/micp "My Trakt profile"

I’ve been using Trakt for many months now without any issues. On startup it checks both my Movies and TV libraries for newly added / updated items and displays a nice little tweet when I start watching something so all my friends know what I’m up too!

If you look over to the right on the homepage you will now see I’ve added a recently watched section. I am basically making a call to the trakt API and pulling in my most recently watched with a few lines of code (I will share this at a later date once I’ve added a few more bits and pieces).

Anyway, if anybody is looking for somewhere social where they can share their media collections and find new movies and tv shows or old one’s which you may have forgotten about then I definitely recommend you check out trakt.