---
title: 'Diet: Part 2'
author: micp
layout: post
permalink: /2012/08/diet-part-2/
---
# 

Anybody who knows me well enough will know I enjoy nothing more than eating food. They will also know that at the end of April I decided to go on a little diet.

Now I’ve never had to diet before this. I’ve never cared about what I ate. Calories I consumed and all of that. I’ve just ate what I want, when I want.

In January I had another operation on my left knee. This was a small operation to repair the cartilage in the knee but one that would mean I wouldn’t exercise for 4 months due to my previous knee injuries and one that meant I wouldn’t kick a ball until 2 weeks ago.

In April I decided to up my rehab. I had previously been doing light weight work at the gym to build up the supporting muscles but this wasn’t contributing to any weight loss and I was still eating like I used to so I then decided I needed to loose some of the weight I had gained.

To my amazement I had put on just under a stone in the few months I had not been doing any exercise and eating rubbish constantly. This has took me to an all time high weight of 14st 7lbs.

I’d done a lot of research in to diets and tried a few which resulted in me losing 3lbs in 2/3 weeks but losing a pound a week wasn’t quick enough for my enjoyment and I was back to the drawing board. I finally found a diet in which I would need to cut all forms of carbs down to a minimal. I’d never looked on the back of a packet before as to what is in the products but as far as I could see everything contained carbs!

The first 4/5 days were a major struggle as my body was running low on stored carbs which you body essentially uses for energy. After this though your body will start to burn fat for energy which is how you begin to lose weight. I coupled my new diet with 1/2 nights of weight work at the gym and 2/3 nights of running on the streets which saw me drop from 14st 4lbs to 12st 4lbs (start of July 2012) which meant I had lost in total around 2 and a half stone in weight in a short time.

You may now be wondering why it says Diet: Part 2 in the title? Well; after losing the weight I went on an all inclusive holiday which basically is saying “come eat and drink all day whilst laying in the sun” and I did exactly that. I have now been home around 2 weeks and I’ve continued to eat carbs and I am once again waking up feeling a little more tired than I did when I didn’t eat them. I’m also waking up a lot during the night and my sleeping pattern is rubbish – all of which I didn’t have problems with when I wasn’t eating carbs. I am currently at a weight of 12st 10lbs which means I’ve gained 6lbs in 4/5 weeks.

So I’ve decided that as of tomorrow (Thursday 9th August) I will be adapting my diet again to remove the carbs. I wont be as strict as I previously was because I am only looking to lose around a stone in weight over a 2/3 month period but I will definitely be watching my daily carb intake and exercising more. All of which I will blog on here.

The app (MyFitnessPal) I am currently using to log my daily food intake doesn’t have an API so if anyone knows of one which does then please let me know. I’d be happy to have a play around and build something which I can then place on the site to monitor my current weight / total weight loss (hopefully) daily intake and so on.