---
title: 1140 CSS Grid
author: micp
layout: post
permalink: /2012/08/1140-css-grid/
---
# 

Responsive Web Design is a big thing in the web world at the minute. Having a website which responds to the resolution of the device it’s being viewed on is going to be standard practice soon.

Once upon a time we only had to design for desktop so websites which were wrapped in a container were fine. Now we have a range of devices that users can access the content from:

*   Desktop
*   Tablets
*   Mobile phones

I could sit and write all day about how it’s now important to serve up a different design for these 3 devices but I’m sure the majority of you already know.

I have had a few people ask me if I’ve used a CSS framework and the answer is yes. After looking at a few different frameworks I finally settled on the 1140 CSS Grid ([cssgrid.net][1]).

 [1]: http://cssgrid.net/ "CSS  Grid"

The grid is built up of 12 columns which all adapt depending on what the user has as their resolution. You’re able to choose a variety of different column choices for your layout as long as the column count adds up to 12.

So for an example my header is currently 8×4 columns and my footer is currently 4x4x4 which all equal 12.

If you’re looking for a responsive framework to get your website up and running quickly then I’d suggest that you go and take a look at the 1140 grid.

There’s also a WordPress theme which is available [here][2] which is what I am using. This will basically strip your theme down to plain text and allow you to build it up from there. A little bit of knowledge about WordPress is required though. If you decide to use the framework and have any questions just pop me an email (address in the footer).

 [2]: http://dotma.cc/8Yqk "1140 WordPress theme"